All right so in this video we're gonna get into m units and REM units up to this point.
We've pretty much been using pixels for everything which is a fixed unit.
So m and rhyme are similar but they're multipliers of different things so an M unit is a multiplier
or relative to the font size of its parent container or its parent element where a RAM unit is its relative
to the font size of the root h t Mal element.
OK so if we look at an H team I'll file this right here.
This each team l tag its default Potts Point its default font size is 16 pixels but of course you can
change that within your C Ss so I know it's it's kind of tough to explain so let's jump in and let's
create a file called 14 underscore M underscore Ram dot h t now and we'll put our head body tags in
here and let's say and ram units and then for the H team l I'm just going to have a box 1 div and let's
do an H 3 2 paragraph we'll do Lord 20 and then I'm just going to copy the whole div here.
Okay so this one will do.
Box 2 box 2 All right.
So let's save this and let's open up a live server and let's open up our dev tools as well here.
Here we're gonna be in the elements tab and I'm just going to go ahead and select the.
Select the paragraph.
Now by default the font size as well as the margin here it's going to be set to 1 end.
So whatever the number of pixels of the font size of its parent element and by default obviously its
parent its direct parent is the box one which we haven't set a specific font size.
So it's going to keep going up until it finds a font size which it's going to reach the the HDMI all
the root element.
OK.
This is the absolute root element.
And by default that's 16 pixels.
So if we go to computed you're gonna see that the margin is 16 pixels the font size is also 16 pixels.
Now headings are a bit different.
If we take a look at that and grab the selector and click on the heading you can see the font size is
actually the computed font size is eighteen point seventy two.
Because if we look at the actual CSX from the browser the font size is one point one seven m.
So the reason for that is 16 pixels or sixteen times one point seventeen is actually equal to eighteen
point seven two.
So that's where this comes from.
OK.
Now if I were to manually change the font size of of the direct parent which is Box 1 so it's a font
size we'll change it to 20 pixels rather than 16.
And watch what happens to this font size of the H three can save and it gets it gets turned to twenty
three point four because twenty times one point seven.
That's what the the m..
That's what this is set to one point.
I'm sorry 1 point 1 7 is going to be twenty three point four and if we look at the paragraph now the
font size is 20 pixels.
So is the margin I can see right here the margin on the start and the end.
Also 20 pixels because it's it's set to 1 m OK so you can see right here.
So it's going to be whatever this is.
Now let's say we wanted to change the font size of the paragraph so we'll say box 1.
Let's see.
We'll do box 1 paragraph and let's set font size 2.
Let's do one point five REM.
I'm sorry Em and save and you can see it gets much bigger.
And down here this is our styling font size one point five m so let's look at the computed value computed
value is 30 pixels excuse me and the reason for that is because one 20 which is its parent element time's
one point five is equal to 30.
That's where we get 30 pixels from.
And it's also automatically going to add that margin to the top and the bottom of 30.
Now one thing that's confusing about M units is if I do padding.
Right.
So let's say padding 1 m what it would just take a second and think of what what this is going to be.
Remember 1 m is a multiplier of its parent.
So you might think that it's going to equal 20 right.
Because 20 times one is 20.
So let's save it and let's see what we get.
So for padding which is right here we actually get 30.
The reason for that is since we added a font size to the actual element itself the paragraph it's going
to go on that now.
OK.
So the padding is going to be since this is 30 pixels to one point five times 20.
And then we set this to 1 m then it's going to be 30.
And that's very confusing.
So that's that's one reason that a lot of people don't use Ms.
And one reason I don't use Ms.
So another reason is for nested elements.
So let's go ahead and add down here you well.
And I'm just going to put in a couple list items we can use the money sign which was just start at 1
and go in increment by 1.
We'll say times for tab and then we get these for list items.
Now this one here I'm going to add another well and let's do the same thing.
Say times three and we'll save and we have these list items here.
So let's say we want to change the font size of a well that's in box 1.
So Box 1 Well and let's say we want the font size
to be one point two m and let's go ahead and save that.
So if you look at this well the nested list right here is bigger.
Right.
And we can check that out by using the selector.
Let's look at these ones here.
So we get 24 pixels but if we look at these ones here we get twenty eight point eight.
So it's not consistent and the reason for that is these inner elements here are actually now going on
the nested I'm sorry their parent element and we have a nested well here.
So this is going on this and if we were to put another you all like let's go ahead and grab this and
put this right here and paste that in well nested again it's going to get even bigger.
So that's that's another issue with using Ms.
So my suggestion would be just to drop Ms altogether and use REMS because they're always going to be
based on the root element.
All right.
So let's start to get into that.
So I'm actually going to comment out the whole div here the whole box one div
and let's see.
Comment this stuff out too so we'll just kind of start from scratch and now we'll look at Ram units.
Now I'm not going to set a font size to the parent element itself.
Box 2 because we're very rarely going to do that.
We're going to be using REM units so we're gonna go on the root element always.
So let's grab the let's grab the H 3 so box Dash 2 H 3 and let's set the font size to let's say 2 REM.
OK we'll save that and let's take a look at what that is so if you go and hit that and we look at our
computed styles you'll see that it's going to be 32.
Like I said the HDMI all the root element font size is always gonna be 16 pixels unless we manually
change it so you can see it's 32.
If we set let's say box 2 paragraph set font size two to one point six RAM and we save that and we take
a look at the computed sides is twenty five point six pixels.
OK.
Because 16 times one point six is gonna be twenty five point six.
Now let's let's actually add a line height here.
So the height of the line and I'm going to do one point seven REM.
Now remember when we used M units if we had set a line height here it would actually it would actually
be based on this.
Right.
But since we're using REMS it's always going to be based on the root h t mail element.
So let's save it.
Let's take a look at the line height and it's twenty seven point two which is 16.
The root elements font size times one point seven.
So much less confusing if we wanted to change the root element font size we could do that.
So let's go right here and just simply do HD PML and let's say font size 10 pixels and we'll save.
And notice that everything got smaller.
So if we check out the font size of the heading here it's 20 pixels because the heading is set to to
ram right.
So it's going to be two times 10 which is 20.
The paragraph trying to take a guess at what that's going to be.
Let's check it out.
And it's 16 pixels because ten times one point six is 16 and if we look at the line height it's 17 because
we set it to one point seven and this is actually a common thing that some people do because when you
deal with 16 pixels as the root element it's harder to figure out what the exact size is going to be.
If you set it to 10 then you're going to know that two is twenty one point six is sixteen This is seventeen
two point eight is 28.
You know if we if we set the the font size here to two point three it's gonna be twenty three pixels
right.
If we take a look at it.
So let's grab the heading.
It's twenty three pixels.
So a lot of people will do that and to make it even more responsive we could just set the font size
to a percentage to sixty two point five percent which is actually going to be 10 pixels by save that
it's the same thing twenty.
And if we look at the font size of the text here it's going to be 16 because we said it's a one point
six room and just to show you if I said it's a one room it's gonna be ten OK.
So you might see this as well.
I tend to leave the team out at 16 pixels and just and just kind of eyeball things rather than being
so exact.
If you are taking an actual design from like photoshop or something and it need the pixels need to be
exact then you might want to do it this way you might want to set it to sixty two point five so that
you know exactly how many pixels you're adding to padding and all that.
For me I do a lot of my my designs just just by eyeballing it just by doing the H two LCROSS not actually
copying an exact design so I'll usually leave the room.
Sorry the the root element at sixteen.
Now another huge reason to use REM units this is for accessibility and browser settings.
Now if I go to my chrome settings and go down to where it says font size you'll see it's set to medium.
That's the default.
That's the recommended but if I said it's a very large and I use REM units notice Mike it's gotten bigger.
In fact down here you'll see the paragraph is now 24 instead of 16 because we've we've we've manually
set that in the browser settings if we use m units that has no effect in fact I'll go ahead and take
this off and take this comment off and we'll save it.
And it has no effect.
So if I it's I mean it's set larger because of what we did up here.
But watch if I said it to very small notice that all the stuff we do with the M units is still huge.
While if we go down to where we used REMS it's very small.
OK.
So it's not going to have an effect if your parent elements have font sizes.
Now if we didn't have a parent element font size it would go by the h t AML even if we used Ms.
And then it would work because that's what this is doing.
This is changing the the parent.
I'm sorry the root elements font size if we didn't have this here let's get rid of that and save.
Now you'll see that this is very small because it's going by the root element by default.
But when you use MS You're adding you're adding font size to the parent element and that's what it goes
on regardless of the settings in the browser.
So just another reason that REM units make things more adaptive and more responsive.
So let's set this back to medium and I'm going to comment this stuff back out OK.
So I know that that this may be confusing but it is a good idea to use REM units if you want to use.
I mean it's you can but that's I mean everybody has their own style their own ways of doing things.
I don't really use m units except for maybe some special situations but you know using ram it makes
it more accessible.
If someone if older people that can't see very well they want to change the settings it will actually
work.
You know it makes things more responsive more adaptive so it is it is recommended but you could also
stick with pixels.
It's all up to you guys.
You know whatever is easier for you.
But we will be using Ram units quite a bit throughout the rest of the course.
All right.
So in the next video I want to take a look at another CSX unit which is the viewport height in the viewport
with unit.
OK.
Which are really used for something completely different.
Used more for like black boxes and backgrounds and stuff like that rather than like font sizes.
All right so I'll see you in the next video.